*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK 57668 ***













[Illustration: The above is a reproduction of a photograph of an electric
spark, showing the Negative and Positive. The white represents the
negative, the lines show the positive, the view on the top showing the
strongest positive effect.]




                               The Secret
                             of Life, Death
                             and Immortality

                      A Startling Proposition, With
                       a Chapter Devoted to Mental
                      Therapeutics and Instructions
                            for Self Healing

                                  _By_
                             HENRY FLEETWOOD

                               _Author of_
                            “MUSIC AS A CURE”

                      Published by Henry Fleetwood
                               Los Angeles
                                  1909

                             Copyrighted by
                             HENRY FLEETWOOD
                              Dec. 3, 1908




TABLE OF CONTENTS


                                CHAPTER I

                                  Life

    Cosmic Evolution; Life Germs—how produced; “The Word”—evolution
    of; Universal Vibration—the only Immortality; Continuous
    Evolution—the condition of creation.

                               CHAPTER II

                          Electricity and Life

    Proof that Electricity is Life; recent discoveries in the
    wireless telegraph and telephone, telepathy, etc.,—how they
    affect the human race; other possibilities of Electricity.

                               CHAPTER III

                             Love and Music

    Their relation to Life; their effect on creation; the power of
    love; the power of music; all emotion subject to these powers.

                               CHAPTER IV

                               Immortality

    There cannot be conscious immortality; what is immortality?;
    why we hope for consciousness in a future life; how the
    ancients regarded a future life.

                                CHAPTER V

                                 The Sun

    Its relation to life; what is radiant energy?; why the ancients
    worshipped the sun; the Parsees the present sun worshippers.

                               CHAPTER VI

                                  Fear

    The great curse of the Universe—the only devil—its insidious
    claims—its effect on life.

                               CHAPTER VII

                                  Death

    Its relation to Life; the only Immortal; its loving purpose;
    its relation to evolution.

                              CHAPTER VIII

                                 Healing

    Mental Therapeutics, or healing suggestions; Christian Science;
    Faith healing, etc.

                               CHAPTER IX

                         Resume and Conclusion.




PREFACE


The writer of these pages a few years ago invented, patented and
successfully demonstrated in the city of Los Angeles, California, a
mechanical device by which he transformed musical vibrations into
“electrical” waves. These when conveyed to the human organism were
found to be harmonizing, vitalizing, and curative, in many nervous and
functional disorders. Further study and research along these lines
convinced him that all vibration, or motion, or activity is electrical.
That all phenomena are electrical phenomena. In fact, that there is but
one substance in the universe, and that is—Electricity.

Without any attempt to enter the realm of metaphysics, the writer desires
to state that he uses the term Life in its absolute or universal sense,
and not in the conditioned or limited sense in which it is ordinarily
and loosely used. He distinguishes between Life—with its eternal,
inherent unceasing impulse and energy—and the resultant of that impulse
and energy; whether that resultant be a molecule of hydrogen or what
is called consciousness, intelligence, manifesting through an organism
called man.

This Life is not mind, nor its product matter. It is Substance—and
that substance the writer calls electricity. It is eternal. It is the
totality of what is, or Be-ing. It has a dual impulse or tendency, viz.
(the positive and negative)—attraction and repulsion of its infinite
integral constituent particles or ELECTRONS. This attraction and
repulsion, this breaking and closing of the circuit, this vibration
or motion—always in a straight line or a circle—this infinite eternal
polarity, being continuous creation or evolution, and destruction or
devolution.

It has not been possible in the limited space devoted to this book to
attempt a discussion and proof of the statements made herein. While the
statements made are scientific and rational the writer could not do more
than point out through them the direction in which the truth is to be
sought and found.

The reader will find many thoughts suggested along the line of the
wireless telegraph and telephone, musical vibrations, thought vibrations,
telepathy, clairvoyance, “Spiritualistic phenomena,” death, post-mortem
consciousness or “Conscious immortality,” etc.

We are living in an age of scientific investigation and inquiry. The
human mind is awakening to the necessity of doing its own thinking
instead of being bound by the many dogmas of religious systems.

Laden with ability to annihilate superstition, and forever destroy that
curse of humanity—Fear—in all who will carefully and with an open mind
read them, these pages are set adrift.

                                                    HENRY FLEETWOOD,
                                                 Los Angeles, California.

September, 1908.




CHAPTER I

Life

Cosmic Evolution. Life Germs—How Produced. “The Word”—Evolution of.
Thought Vibration the Only Immortality. “Life” and “Death” Evolved from
the Same Cosmic Substance.


    “But words are things, and a small drop of ink falling like dew
    upon a thought, produces that which makes thousands, perhaps
    millions, think.”—Byron.

Electricity is the one, eternal, unchangeable, indestructible, universal
substance.

The universe is made up of innumerable “corpuscles,” from whose manifold
combinations, ruled by unalterable affinities, has been evolved our solar
system.

Our earth after the cooling process, became through the light and radiant
energy of the sun, the theater of the evolution of the various forms of
life. The eternal, inherent, restless energy that had formed and launched
into existence this solar system continued its work to evolve conscious
life on this earth. Monad, atom, protoplasm, molecule and cell all being
produced by this electric energy we call life.

This universal substance is constituted of electrons—infinitesimally
smaller than atomic dust—each electron having the potentiality of the
whole, with its positive and negative impulse.

It is well known that each molecule is a separate and distinct organism,
formed by this same electric impulse. The active force in evolution being
the electric energy—attraction and repulsion—its movements can be easily
followed by noting the similarity of its formation, namely, circular
or spherical. The tendency of this electric energy is always to form a
complete circuit—and must do so in order to evolve and carry on its work
of evolution; all creation being the result of the breaking and closing
of the circuit. The various forms of life evolved, are subject to this
same restless impulse—positive and negative—which continues the work of
creation or evolution.

As what is called “life” is the result of the closing of the circuit,
so what is called “death” is the result of the breaking of the circuit.
Thus we see that life and death are one and the same process. Simply the
readjustment, rearrangement of these infinite electrons by the opening
and closing of the electric circuit. The same eternal, inherent, restless
energy forever at play—creating life, and creating death—both equally
beautiful. This is the continuous evolution of Darwin and others. There
is no rest. There is only eternal continuous vibration. Prof. Loeb says,
“The force that makes life possible is primarily the electric charge.”
Dr. Samuel Wallian says, “Life originates in vibration and consists of an
incessant repetition of vibrations.” It can with equal truth be said that
THE FORCE THAT MAKES DEATH POSSIBLE IS PRIMARILY THE ELECTRIC CHARGE; AND
DEATH ORIGINATES IN VIBRATION, AND CONSISTS OF AN INCESSANT REPETITION OF
VIBRATIONS—or opening and closing of an electric circuit. These are the
only Two IMMORTALS—Life and Death.

Primitive man having his habitation mainly in the primeval forest, the
shadows cast by the sun became objects of terror to him. The caves
with their mysteries begot gnomes and hobgoblins. Thus was born that
great curse of humanity—Fear. Feeling the need of protection from these
bogies of his imagination, he peopled his world with fairies, etc.,
that would help him to overcome the evil of these fancied cave and
forest shadow-folk. Here we have the origin of good and evil, rewards
and punishments, out of which has been evolved the various systems of
religion. Observing the various phenomena of this universal force, he
called it God; made images to express his ideas and worshipped them.

Man’s evolution in the universe of thought has been slow, handicapped as
he has been by superstition, traditional folk-lore and lack of individual
search for truth. But now for the past fifty years there has prevailed
a set of thought vibrations—a so-called “New Thought” wave—that has
impelled to a desire for the truth that shall make one free.

There is no mystery in nature. She works under the immutable laws of her
eternal being—Electricity. When primitive man evolved on this earth he
was at first without speech, his only language being guttural sounds and
gestures, some of which are distinctly discernible in many of the present
races of mankind. From these guttural sounds speech was evolved and the
“word” was born. “In the beginning was the word and the word was with God
and the word was God.”

The brain cells of man—the ego—the beginning or birth of
understanding—sent forth vibrations called “thought” into the universe;
and man has been adding to their volume during countless ages. As he
progressed he learned to write by signs or hieroglyphics, thus recording
his thoughts. By still further evolution he constructed an alphabet and
finally a printing press, so that now thoughts can be easily recorded and
preserved.

Sir Humphrey Davy immediately upon recovering from apparent death, caused
by one of his scientific experiments, exclaimed, “I am convinced that
thought is all there is in the universe.”

As all man’s thoughts,—the vibrations of his brain cells—are contained in
the universe, there must be reservoirs of thought governed by the law of
natural selection.

This accounts for what we call genius. For example, a child is born
showing early a genius for music, which enables it to grow in the art
until it becomes famous. What is the explanation? Simply that during the
period of gestation the mother was environed by musical vibrations, so
attuning the brain cells of the child that communication was established
with some great reservoir of musical thought in the universe, and a
genius was evolved. This is the so-called “Reincarnation.” A perfectly
natural law of vibration.

Creation, we repeat, is but continuous evolution, bringing forth by
natural selection,—“everything after its kind”—progressing onward year by
year, developing more improved species and greater inventions. Evolution
is but continuous creation. They are one, even as life and death are one.

Lucretius wrote fifty years B. C., “Change is the law of things and is
brought about by opposing forces.” Lucretius did not know that these
opposing forces were but the attraction and repulsion, or positive
and negative action of the one universal substance,—Electricity. The
inherent eternal impulse (polarity, or sex) of the electrons composing
the universal substance from which all things are evolved. Many of the
great scientific writers, such as Kant, Darwin, Wallace, Hume, etc.,
had not seen this great light which the discovery and investigation of
certain electrical phenomena has revealed and so could not account for
this primal force in the universe, which they knew existed but could not
define.

Electricity is Life, and cosmic evolution is but the law of vibration of
its eternal, universal being.

All formations of worlds, planets, suns, stars, asteroids, etc., were
rotated into form and position and continue their movements by this same
universal law of vibration—the inherent, eternal impulse and energy of
the one only substance—Electricity. Millions of ages have been evolved
in the cosmos. All are subject to what is called decay or death, but, as
Lucretius says, “What is will perish, but only to appear in another form.”

All formations of nature in the universe are circular or spherical, thus
proving their electric source or origin, and are but the completion of an
electric circuit. Every stone, grain of sand and drop of water is rotated
and rounded by this same electric vibratory impulse. What is true of our
solar system, we may by deduction conclude is true of other systems,
which may have gone through evolution and devolution many times in the
countless aeons of the so called “past.” Combustion, radiant energy, what
are these but modes of motion? A living, breathing, thinking organism
called man, or an expiring puppy on the sidewalk, are but different modes
of vibration of this one universal substance. From worlds to atoms, from
atoms to monads, from monads to motion,—and we find the universe held
in a solution of omnipotent, electric energy, just as salt is held in
solution in the ocean. Well may we repeat the modern paraphrase—

    Praise law from whom all blessings flow,
      Praise protoplasm here below,
    Praise matter, evolution tossed,
      Praise force, the only Holy Ghost.




CHAPTER II

Electricity and Life

Proof That Electricity Is Life. Recent Discoveries in the Wireless
Telegraph and Telephone. Their Effect on the Thought of the Race. Other
Possibilities of Electricity.


    Our little lives are kept in equipose,
    By opposite attractions and desires.—Longfellow.

Recent discoveries in what is called electrical science, demonstrating
the wide range of application of electric vibrations and suggesting
almost unlimited possibilities as to its future adaptation to the
purposes of mankind, indicate that man has at last harnessed the primary
force or energy of the universe to become his willing servant. With the
discovery of the wireless telegraph, and wireless telephone—by means of
which conversation has been carried on at a distance of four hundred
miles—the scientific nature and possibilities of telepathy is understood.
The principle is the same. In the wireless telephone by means of two
instruments attuned to the same rate of vibration two persons widely
separated are enabled to hear each other’s words. In telepathy two
persons whose brain cells are attuned to the same rate of vibration are
enabled to sense each others thoughts, at any distance.

This is the explanation of impressions of impending disaster and death.
The so-called psychic forces are perfectly natural and there is nothing
supernatural in the universe.

A knowledge of the laws of electrical vibration is the key that will
unlock all the secrets of the universe to man.

All motion,—electrical vibration—is the real Book of Life, opened ever to
the true student of science. Burbank by the study of this book of nature
has discovered the law of various polarities or affinities (natural
selection) of vegetables, fruits and flowers and has caused them to
produce new varieties, improving the species.

What is called intelligent purpose is said to be manifested by man in
this ability to direct and assist what is called nature to bring about
different and “better” (?) conditions. Left to herself nature produces
chaotic conditions; weeds, brambles, briars and trees crowding themselves
into various fantastic shapes. Lack of intelligent PURPOSE is shown in
all this and only the “intelligent purpose” displayed by man produces
order out of chaos. Where then is the intelligent purpose of the
universe? Certain vibrations in the universe cause floods, tornadoes,
cyclones, earthquakes, etc. These are simply results of natural laws
of electric energy which in sport, as it were, like a child with his
blocks, builds and pulls down, builds and pulls down, “creates and
destroys” ad infinitum. Attraction and repulsion, positive and negative
electric action—vibration—generates, sustains and destroys all the
manifold forms, organic and inorganic, of what is called life and death.
There is no death. Death is but a name given to one of the many forms
manifested by life. A knowledge of the dual nature of electrical impulse
is the true and only “secret” of life and death.

In the organic form or entity called man there has been evolved an organ
called the brain; an arrangement of cells whose vibratory action enables
them to receive and give off vibrations called thought—intelligence.
The universe transmits these vibrations through the entity attuned to
receive them. Or, to speak poetically, we say, the universe “voices its
intelligence through man.” And man voices his intelligence through the
universe. Man thus becomes a Lord—a God—and has dominion.

If we accept electricity as the only substance and vibration as the vital
force and origin of all existence, it is impossible to imagine what may
yet be revealed to us respecting the structure of the universe.

If electricity is all there is, then thought must be electrical. The
vibrations being received by the brain cells, are conveyed throughout
the body. Light vibrations strike upon the eye and enter the brain and
we see by the brain. Sound waves enter the brain by the ear and we hear
by the brain. Various vibrations received by the brain are transmitted
through the nerves to the various organs of the body. They respond to
these vibrations and harmony, health or disease, results.

If the brain is attuned to receive healthful vibrations, the body will
surely respond and harmony or health obtain. This is the secret of mental
healing in all its forms that is being practiced in these states today,
whether it be Mental Science, Christian Science, New Thought, Divine
Healing, Suggestive Therapeutics, or whatever; and reduces every one of
these various systems of healing to a simple natural law of vibration.
These healthful vibrations are as free to all as the air they breathe and
cannot be cornered by any set of so-called “healers” in the world. The
result of so-called evil or malefic vibrations we see every day in our
hospitals, asylums, jails, police courts, etc. The reading of certain
books and daily newspapers attunes the brain to receive a certain kind
of vibration and the results usually lead to the reform school and State
prison. What are called evil thought vibrations are as abounding in the
universe as good thought vibrations, and if the brain is attuned to
receive them, the resulting inharmonious conditions are sure to obtain.

Colors are the result of electric vibration. Sir William Crookes and
Gessler demonstrated this by their invention of vacuum tubes. By
attaching one of these tubes to one of the poles of a static electric
machine, or high frequency coil, with a low potency, a yellow light is
produced. The potency being increased red appears. By still further
increasing the potency to about twelve million vibrations per second,
purple or violet rays are generated. Then comes the Roentgen or X-ray—a
brilliant, greenish, light, which renders opaque bodies transparent. Thus
science in electrical discovery is rapidly revealing to us the secrets of
the universe.

All vibrations are co-related. For instance, a man has a burst of violent
passion—a high rate of brain cell vibration—and we say he “sees red.”
This is true and he is almost sure to commit murder and will if the rate
of vibration be kept up in his brain cells. And unless you can “switch
the current”—lower the vibration—he will be plunged into a sea of color
or intense vibration which his brain is unable to assimilate and we
have what we term insanity. The writer firmly believes that Musical
Vibrations which are transformed into electrical waves and transmitted
to the patient, will ultimately be found to be the “switch” that shall
change the potency of these vibrations in the insane, and restore many a
hopeless entity to normal brain conditions.

As another illustration of the power of thought vibrations take those
that went forth when Garrison, Phillips, Sumner and others voiced the
abolition of slavery in this country, which culminated in the greatest
war of modern times and developed a manhood and self-sacrifice seldom if
ever given to the world. This is Immortality. These events belong to no
one country, but to the world and are the heritage of humanity, and but
one step in the evolution of the race toward the goal of perfect liberty,
which is the knowledge of truth and love, and the real brotherhood of
man.




CHAPTER III

Love and Music

Their Relation to Life. Their Influence in the Work of Evolution. The
Power of Love. The Power of Music. All Emotions Produced by and Subject
to These Two Forces.


Love and music had their birth and growth simultaneously, and have
continued their journey side by side.

Primeval man through passion or the procreative tendency, surrounded
himself with offspring. Through the appeal made by the helplessness
of his children paternal love was evolved. From this was evolved love
of family, tribe, clan, and country. In all this music moved side by
side with love. The mother before language was born crooned her lullaby
to her baby, and the father imitating the birds pursed his lips and
made similar sounds. Later he used hollow reeds and fashioned pipes or
flutes. Thus music was born, becoming a universal language, and has been
involved throughout all the ages. Music and love are inseparable, and
their influence upon mankind is unfathomable. We read a love story, or
hear a love song, and each brings a thrill of emotion or vibration that
stimulates, and brings to the body that harmony, the perfection of which
is fullness of life—health. The birds sing their love songs to their
mates and these vibrations fill the woods with music. The humming bird
with continuous accompanying melody gathers the honey from the flowers
to feed its young. All music is life and life is love. The youth is
transformed into a man, the maiden into a woman, by love. And this is a
new birth or regeneration. Emerson says, “The passion remakes the world
for the youth. It makes all things alive and significant. Nature grows
conscious. Every bird on the bough of the tree sings now to his heart and
soul. The trees of the forest, the waving grass and the peeping flowers
have grown intelligent.” All nature breathes love, which is expressed
in self-abnegation, dying that other species may live. Prof. Darwin at
a meeting of a Scientific Society in Dublin made this statement, “All
vegetation sees, hears, breathes and feels.” Witness the action of the
sensitive and carnivorous plants.

We have said all organic and inorganic existence is subject to and lives
by the same vibratory energy of the one substance—Electricity. Its
vibrations produce “the exquisite tint of the rose, the velvet of the
lily and the ethereal daintiness of the orchid. Each is but some trifling
variation in the timbre, the tempo or the pitch of vibration that
produces it.”

The breathing of zephyrs through the trees echoes the universal language
of music in which all nature voices its thought. The purling of the
brooks, are but other notes by which nature sings her song of love. “All
one’s life is music if one touches the notes rightly and in tune.”

Musical vibrations are full of healing power. Their effect upon mind and
body soothing and vitalizing beyond description, and producing every
emotion of which we are capable. It is the key that will unlock for us
the deep secrets of the universe. Its universal language enables the
composer to reveal his thoughts to an audience, by notes, tones, rhythms,
cadences, which are but different rates of vibration. As he describes
a storm, the wind wails through the trees, the branches sway, the rain
patters on the leaves. Then the rush of the storm, the pealing thunder,
the flash of lightnings, the rush and downpour of angry waters. Then
comes the lull, the dying away, the burst of sunlight, the birds singing
their songs of joy. We see and hear it all. It is a painting. It is a
symphony. It is vibration. Carlisle says, “All deep things are songs; see
deep enough and you see music. The heart of nature breathes everywhere
music if you can only reach it.”

This love force or vibration, great in volume, is like a great white
light whose radiant energy absorbs and burns up all its opponents, such
as hatred, dislike, malice, uncharitableness, etc., just as the sun in
the solar system absorbs all cosmic matter (vibrations) that comes within
its radius. This cosmic matter furnishing the combustion necessary to
continue the radiant energy, which for us means continued existence.

The maiden in her fresh and glorious beauty, with rosebud tinted cheeks,
the aureole of the sun crowning her hair, her form swaying with graceful
mien, bursts like an apparition on the youth, and the refulgence of her
beauty dazzles him like the sunlight and blinds him to all else. While
these intense love vibrations continue he has no eyes, no ears for aught
save her. He exalts her in poem and in song. He “protests” like Romeo and
she like Juliet “doubts” and “doubts,” these very doubts calling forth
more prolerlations. The vibrations called love produce a condition, an
emotion, akin to hysteria. Indeed the brain once attuned to its vibration
becomes obsessed and all sorts of vagaries are evolved amounting to
madness or insanity.

The brain being attuned by some dominant thought immediately assumes
telepathic conditions. It becomes as we say enrapport with this or that
class of thought deposited in the reservoirs of the universe.

Music is the language of love. Listening to some forgotten note or song,
what is called memory is established, and thoughts are awakened we
deemed were long dead. They speak to us in no uncertain or unfamiliar
tones, and many a lover’s quarrel of long standing has been healed by
this sacrament of music.

The universe voices this immortal power. The morning stars sing together,
the brooks ripple their course, the skylark sings his glad carol as
he rises in the air to greet the morning sun, and all light and color
vibrate their praises in the glorious landscapes they are ever painting
on the land. The sea with its ceaseless vibration sings a lullaby to the
tired brain, or in its stormy moods incites man to deeds of daring. All
nature is music and all music is the language of the universe, and “the
world is full of beauty if the heart is full of love.”




CHAPTER IV

Immortality

Is There Conscious Immortality? What is Immortality? Why We Hope for
Consciousness in a Future Life. How the Ancients Regarded a Future Life.


    Virtue alone builds pyramids. Her monuments shall last when
    Egypt’s fall.—Young.

In order that there should be what is spoken of as conscious
immortality—or post-mortem consciousness—there must be an entity or
organism to manifest it. Consciousness is the resultant of the vibratory
movements of certain groupings of electrons called brain cells, acted on
by certain other outside vibrations. This resultant called consciousness
is the “unconscious cerebration” of the scientists. There can no more
be consciousness without brain cells than there can be the music of a
violin without the violin. There must be the entity or personality with
the brain to receive, preserve, and transmit the vibrations that are
contained in the reservoir of thought in the universe.

All thoughts, words and deeds are preserved and exist as rates of
vibration in the universe, and are open to those attuned to receive
them. We spoke in a former chapter of the illustration of the wireless
telegraph and telephone. The coherer, receiver and transmitter being
attuned, communication is established. This is another illustration of
intelligent PURPOSE in the universe, and man is the mouthpiece of it.

When it is seen that every thought or word belongs to its distinctive
wave and must find a brain attuned to the same rate of vibration to
receive and to voice it, the irrationality of endowing an intangible,
substanceless, non-existing, so-called “spirit” with consciousness must
be apparent to anyone.

This is immortality, which correlates every thought and word of man,
holding them in universal phonographic records, as it were, forming a
vast reservoir from which continuously flows by electrical energy all
so-called intelligent and other vibrations, we receiving those to which
we are attuned. This is a thought that might well engage our most serious
attention, involving as it does a responsibility of no little magnitude.
We may well pause to inquire of ourselves what are we depositing in
those archives of thought for redistribution to ourselves, and to our
posterity, to say nothing of mankind in general.

Certain forms of vibration, such as hatred, malice, envy, jealousy
and especially fear, are productive of disease, poverty, old age and
death—all those inharmonious vibrations which comprise the sum of
all the troubles and sorrows of mankind. The most productive of these
inharmonious conditions known as sickness, poverty, old age and death, is
FEAR. Veneration and worship of all kinds is a form of fear and opens the
body to every ill.

Man through religious teaching and self-made creeds has evolved the idea
of rewards and punishments for the “good” and “bad” deeds of this life,
and as there must be a conscious entity to punish and reward and a place
in which to administer the same, a so-called “future life” becomes a
necessity.

What rational ground for all this? None whatever. The cessation of
consciousness in what is called death, is an inevitable step in the
inauguration and evolution of existence. As we have stated heretofore
life and death are one and the same. The same unit of electric energy
with two impulses—life and death. Continuous vibration. Every movement
being the evolution of some new form demonstrating life’s continuity and
electrical nature.

Thales said (600 B. C.), “All around is change. Everything always
becoming something else. All in motion like streams.” He recognized the
law of evolution or continuous vibration. Theophrastes (371 B. C.) says,
“There is one eternal, indestructible substance out of which everything
arises and into which everything again returns.”

That “eternal, indestructible substance” is now known to be electricity,
and the inherent, unceasing energy of its infinite particles or
electrons—now known to be electrical, polar, sexual—the explanation
of all phenomena embraced under the terms—life and death. Life and
Immortality are synonymous. The present is eternity. The now is all there
is. All conscious or unconscious thought vibration is immortal, and is
recorded in the cylindrical records of the universe, and those having the
attunement to those records are in possession of the so-called secrets
of the universe; which are nothing more than the workings of nature’s
inevitable laws revealed and unfolded to us through an understanding of
this great universal substance—Electricity. The one only substance in the
universe.

This substance, this sea of electrons, of which we are, and in which
we live and move and have our being, is in constant motion even as the
great body of water on our globe. “The waters of the globe are all one
sea and truly seen their tide is one.” So in this electrical ocean there
is ebb and flow, ebb and flow, of etheric and atmospheric conditions.
The movement of these tides and waves is always cyclical, proving their
electrical nature. This is seen in the globule of water, in the globe
tides, in the tornadoes, cyclone, etc. All so-called “destructive
conditions” are due to the breaking of the circuit and the violent
determined effort to close it again, and are in themselves constructive
processes. When the circuit is broken the destructive force is let loose
and continues its havoc until this violently vibrating mass of electrons
has re-formed into other conditions in the great electrical ocean.

The suns, worlds, planets, stars are but varied manifestations of this
vibratory electrical force which through millions of ages has evolved and
rotated them into existence, its limitless energy forever continuing the
work of creation or evolution.

These worlds, suns, planets being prepared to generate and maintain the
various forms of life, which by analogy must be the same on other planets
as on ours.

Beginning with the simplest type of organism, the work of evolution
and progress is carried on until the present race of mankind with its
intelligence and will is produced. And there are much higher types in the
universe than what is called human. All this is produced by the action of
the vibratory electrical force which constitutes life—which IS LIFE. You
may call it God if it pleases you.

Consciousness, intelligence, is but the resultant of varying rates of
vibration of different tempos. The action of the vibratory force is
seen in the plants and flowers where the pruning and concentration of
vibration into one stalk improves the fruit or flower. In the American
Beauty rose many branches and buds are sacrificed to bring one flower to
the fullest perfection.

For ages this same pruning process has been applied to the organism known
as man, in order to evolve the intelligence that has produced our men of
genius and power, to control in turn the very forces that called them
into existence. By self-control man has been enabled to direct these
vibrations, holding in check his varied passions which otherwise would
injure him and hasten his dissolution.

The vibrations known as the ether or sound can produce every emotion we
are capable of displaying. We in turn control these same vibrations and
produce music. Ruskin says, “All one’s life is music if one touches the
note rightly and in tune.” “Light, heat, force, motion, sound, sight,
taste, color, thought, emotion all these are but different rates of
vibration.”

Color vibrations denote the passions. Yellow the lymphatic, red the
positive and aggressive, blue the nervous temperament. Purple or violet
are intense vibrations which usually are self-destructive, overthrowing
the reason and producing insanity. These color-vibrations are in turn
susceptible to inhibition and control by musical vibrations of a much
lower tempo than those of color; musical vibrations attaining to only
thirty-two thousand (32,000) per second at their highest tempo, while
the color vibrations known as violet reach twelve million (12,000,000)
to the second. Is it the SONOROSITY of musical tones that equalizes the
vibrations of color and music?

The vibrations of the tones of a violin have been known to heal the
most obstinate wounds, and even surgical operations have been performed
under the influence of musical vibrations. So potent is this force that
the musical step of the military march has to be broken when crossing a
bridge lest it collapse. The walls of Jericho are said to have collapsed
under the vibrations produced by blowing upon rams’ horns in the hands
of the Israelites. Windows have been broken by the vibratory tones of an
organ.

The varying forms of so-called matter are but varying rates of vibration,
ready to be acted upon and dissolved by other rates. The same force
that tears down builds up. Death is only another rate of vibration set
up by this Eternal Life. Post-mortem consciousness is unscientific and
ridiculous. Organic life gives off electrons, that unite and form a new
organism, and the resulting embryo is of like organism, perpetuating
its kind from generation to generation. As this is continuous and never
ceasing, it must be what is meant by Immortality.




CHAPTER V

The Sun

Its Relation to Planetary Life. What is Radiant Energy? Why the Ancients
Worshipped the Sun. The Parsees the Present Sun Worshippers.


It is supposed to be a figure of speech, a mere bit of symbolism to call
the sun masculine and the earth feminine. To call the earth a woman. To
state that woman was made from man, etc. But when it is understood that
sex is nothing but polarity, that male and female, masculine and feminine
and positive and negative are synonymous terms, we begin to understand
the truly scientific nature of these expressions. They are purely
electrical terms. This sex or polarity is universal. The Macrocosm and
the Microcosm are the same. The Universe is not a Di-verse. Individuality
is not di-viduality. Every organism in the universe is thoroughly
bi-polar or bi-sexual, manifesting the eternal nature of its ultimate
component electrons.

The writer once saw hundreds of children under a common impulse come
swarming, dancing, from every quarter of a great city to a common meeting
place. As they rushed together en masse their individual movements
continued until out of the marching and counter-marching, the shifting,
changing, rearranging, re-adjusting there was evolved before his eyes
the flag of this nation with its glorious stripes and stars composed of
human boys and girls.

We have stated that ether, air, fire, water, earth, are but masses of
infinitesimally small particles—called electrons—of the one primeval,
universal substance, living their life of attraction and repulsion,
embrace and separation, forever whirling in their eternal “Maypole
dance.” Rushing together in a mad embrace, then darting away to seek
some other partner. Weaving in and out, in and out, around about, back
and forth, to and fro. This dance is called Creation—Evolution. It is an
eternal Brocken—an eternal Nachtspiel.

The sun is but one great mass of these whirling, vibrating, dancing
electrons. As varying numbers of these rush off and regroup themselves,
other planets are “born” or evolved. All depend upon the larger or parent
mass from which they parted. Our earth is but one of these children of
the sun. The earth is a woman, a beautiful woman, forever young, forever
fair. The sun is her father.

The sun is the primary source of the variety of forms of life on this
earth. While the electrical energy, or positive and negative impulse of
the electrons of atomic matter, constitute the eternal force or energy
called Life, only by the radiant energy of the sun in our system,
could we have the planets—of which our earth is one—and the varied
forms of activity evolved and maintained thereon. Our earth could no
more produce these higher forms of activity called mineral, vegetable,
animal, man,—all biological activities—without the sun, than the female
could produce offspring without the male. The sun is positive, the earth
negative. The sun’s vibrations reach our earth in about eight minutes
and acting upon its atmosphere, it finds a resistance or polarity out of
which is evolved light, heat and moisture.

Every molecule of our body is rotated into form and continues its
activities by the radiant energy of the sun.

Here again we see there can be no death. Every atom in the universe is
living, pulsating, vibrating electric energy.

The sun is like a great dynamo, rotating every planetary body into form
and position, and through its continued radio-activity carrying on the
further processes of creation called the evolution of sentient life. It
is often asked, “Are other worlds inhabited by sentient beings?” There
can be no reason for supposing otherwise. Given atmospheres, and the
radiant energy of the sun or suns, must by analogy evolve like results on
other planets.

We do not wonder the ancients worshipped the sun. They regarded it as
the source or author of their being—their Creator. The theologian calls
his creator God. But the Hebrew word for God is Elohim—creative forces.
John says, “The word was God.” The psalmist says, “Day unto day uttereth
speech.” What is speech but vibration? The sun is the source of all
vibration in the solar system. It has created this earth and all its
inhabitants. All forms of life on this planet, all activities, are but
the radiant energy of the sun.




CHAPTER VI

Fear

The Great Curse of Humanity. The Only Devil. Its Insidious Claims. Its
Effect on Life.


    “The thing that I feared hath come upon me.”—Job.

Through fear the human race has been converted into cowards and slaves.

In a former chapter we have suggested the origin or birth of this demon
with its subsequent evolution of the ideas of good and evil, rewards
and punishments, religions, right and wrong, etc.—Side by side with
the above was the evolution of the conscience, which in turn became
the greatest producer of fear known to the human race. The conscience,
that Shakespeare says “doth make cowards of us all.” A modern teacher
says “Conscience is the jaw of morality. It has spread far outside
the Christian or any other religion and become an essential factor of
modern civilization. Conscience is the most depressing element in human
existence. Its entire business is to reduce spirit. Every inch of its
energy is laid out against health. It taxes vitality. It claws with
shame. It bites with disgrace. It murders with morbidness, both body and
mind. It manufactures right and wrong. It discharges poison or stimulant
into the blood and nerves. … It has scared the race into trembling lest
it leave them. It has made cowards of us all.”

In man’s effort to escape the thralldom of these twin curses,—fear and
conscience—which so often drives humanity to self-destruction or loss
of reason, and feeling his helplessness against these demons, he sought
a means of propitiating them, and so constructed a system of religious
belief. Believing that his Gods must be placated for his fancied
transgressions, a form of worship was evolved, with ceremonies involving
sacrifice of blood, gifts of money, and treasure for building magnificent
temples, churches, abbeys and monasteries. Lavishing billions of dollars
upon their architecture and art. All these were efforts to overcome fear,
and appease a conscience, which was evolved through the influence of the
shadow-world and the folk-lore of primitive man upon the progenitors of
the race.

We have only to vibrate the unused cells of the brain to bring forth
primitive savagery. Take the action of a mob—let a vibratory wave of
passion be set up in the unused cells of the brain and the entity knows
no law but primitive force. Fear is for the time forgotten in the lust
for blood. This is the explanation of the so-called bravery of the
soldier in time of battle. Although fear dominates him before the
clash of arms is reached, yet the moment he meets his antagonist the
primitive lust for blood overcomes his fear and he becomes once more a
primeval savage and fights to the death. The rationale of this is, that
environment and mode of thought has put in vibration and attuned certain
cells of the brain, by which he establishes communication with some
reservoir of primitive savage vibration in the universe, and all the wild
impulses of primeval instinct rush into and dominate him.

The forgotten “vices” of our ancestors, apparently repeated from
generation to generation, mean no more than this, as we have suggested
heretofore; environment and its engendered mode of thought simply fitting
the brain as a receiver for the reception of specific vibrations. We
treat as criminals those who should be really treated for disease. We are
responsible for the slum conditions in our cities and country which set
up the brain attunement that calls forth these vibrations of ancestral
vices. This is HOW the slums breed vice and crime. And it is in this
direction we should put forth our efforts to reform the criminal. Are
we not responsible for our criminals? We most assuredly are. We are
responsible for these slum conditions and environments which create and
bring into play these specific brain cells and cell vibrations. We say
“Natural born criminals.” Not always. They are made so by environment.
If the money spent in the effort to reform the vicious and criminal was
applied to cleansing the slums and changing man’s environment, it would
greatly reduce the necessity for jails, reform schools and asylums. We
should enact laws to enable us to begin with the child in the public
schools—compulsory if necessary. Not only educating, but seeing that they
were properly clothed and housed and fed, and removed from their vicious
surroundings, parents or guardians. In fact, we are the real criminals
who permit such a thing as a crime producing slum or a “poor quarter.”
The state can easily afford to do this in order to do away with the
so-called vicious element or criminal class.

The present progress of invention in labor-saving devices call for a
greater intelligence than the handling of the pick and the shovel, and
this is being evolved; and this great living vibratory energy or force
which created man and evolved his intellect and his will, man has in
turn harnessed for his use, reducing the necessity for excessive manual
labor; and he will have more time for the arts and sciences. The “man
with the hoe,” will become the man with the electric plow and cultivator,
and instead of hard, laborious work, these wonderful electric inventions
will eventually reduce all labor to mild recreation and enjoyment. This
wonderful electric force has now become a servant and is willing and
eager to give its restless energy to man. It is the power that Tennyson
says is “closer to you than breathing, nearer than hands and feet.” It
is your universal father ready to give whatsoever you ask; but man must
study to know this power, and learn its natural movements in order to
come into the full benefit of his rightful heritage of this primal force
by which he was evolved into conscious existence.

The blight of fear has retarded the human race from coming into its
heritage of knowledge concerning this primal substance and force of the
universe—Electricity. Every effort of science to explain phenomena has
been frowned upon and opposed by theology, which is the child of fear and
conscience. Man has been kept in swaddling clothes which have prevented
his growth to maturity. But thanks to the change of nurses during the
recent centuries his clothes have been changed so frequently that he
has had an opportunity to grow lusty, and all the efforts of nurses to
keep him in leading-strings today are unavailing. He is outgrowing fear
and superstition that has so long strangled science. And science is
destroying fear by its revelations of the workings of natural law, which
in the field of electrical discovery is making its most rapid strides.




CHAPTER VII

Death

Its Relation to Life. Its Immortality. Its loving purpose. Its Relation
to Evolution.


    “To die, to sleep,—To sleep! perchance to dream! ay there’s the
    rub.”—Shakespeare.

In preceding chapters I have so frequently made the statement that life
and death are one and the same, that it seems almost superfluous to
say another word on the subject. But I am willing, even at the risk of
seeming pedantic, to re-state the argument, which is not only simple and
easy of comprehension, but at the same time both scientific and rational.

Without desiring to enter upon the realm of metaphysics in this book, it
will be sufficient to say that we use the term Life in its fullest sense,
and not in the restricted one of consciousness. Consciousness itself
being but one expression of life.

Two Irishmen walking along a road came upon a turtle. It had been
decapitated and its head lay some distance away from its body. “Begorra,”
says Pat, “he’s dead sure enough. His head’s cut off.” Mike picked up
a stick and punched the turtle’s feet, who immediately withdrew them
inside his shell. “No,” says he, “he’s aloive. See him move.” “You’re
a fool Mike,” says Pat. “He’s dead I tell you. Don’t you see his
head’s cut off.” “He’s aloive,” said Mike, “you can see him move.” The
argument became heated, Mike insisting that a dead turtle couldn’t move,
and Pat being equally insistent that no turtle with his head cut off
could be alive. The matter was about to be referred to the Irishman’s
court of last resort, when a Dutchman, passing along, an armistice was
established, and the matter referred to him for decision. The Dutchman
examined the turtle and discovered it had been killed in a supposedly
most effective manner by having its head cut off. Mike’s test with the
stick, however, revealed the ability on the part of the turtle for pretty
lively activity. He then arose and delivered himself, “Gentlemen, dot
turtle iss dead all right,—but it don’t know it.”

Every area of being,—of the universe, is eternally alive. It doesn’t
always KNOW it.

We repeat, there is one—can be but one—Be-ing. This being is not mind,
nor its product matter. Ether is only a refined form of matter. Mind is
adjudged to be a still more refined form of that same matter. But being
is Substance. You may call it Spirit (or meaning) or you may call it God.
Paul called it Faith, and said “by it and of it the worlds were made.”

We call it Electricity. Every infinitesimal electron of this substance,
as we have stated, is by-polar or sexual. Attracting and repelling,
embracing and separating. This eternal, inherent or natural law of their
being is Life,—energy, activity. The resultant of these activities:—the
worlds and all that in them is.

Suppose a great mass of type moved by an inherent, automatic, continuous
impulse. Its integral component letters forever arranging themselves
into words, phrases, sentences, etc. For illustration: The letters
E-V-I-L create the word Evil. Rearrange the same letters and your
word Evil disappears and the word L-I-V-E, Live, appears, or is born,
created, evolved, whatever. The energy, the auto-activity would be one
and the same. The disintegration and disappearance of one word, and the
re-adjustment of letters and appearance or creation of another word being
equally the resultant of the same letters, with their same inherent
energy and impulse. You might call one part of the process Creation and
another part Destruction, but the process is one and continuous. Your
division is merely hypothetical, or assumed. What is destroyed? The
letters remain, and their inherent energy or impulse remains—all there
was at any time.

The integral, component particles—electrons—of the one only eternal
substance, are the letters comprising the universe. Their inherent,
automatic, eternal energy, activity—Life—forever spelling out words
and sentences, etc., that go to make up the Book of Life. They arrange
themselves as earthquake or pestilence, famine, murder, birth, disease,
old age, death, sunshine, flowers, music, painting, sculpture, art,
laughter, tears, whatever. What are these terms but names for the varied
activities of life? Life is all there is. What is called death is equally
life. Life and death are the two impulses of this one universal force.

In certain of its phenomena, now classified as electrical, this dual
impulse is noted and its action is called “closing the circuit” and
“breaking the circuit.” This same dual impulse or tendency to embrace
and separate—embrace and separate—obtains throughout the entire cosmos,
proving the universality of electrical action. Ether, fire, air, water,
earth, sound, sensation, light, form, color, smell, food, thought are all
known to be modes of motion—rates of vibration. Motion of what? Rate of
vibration of what?—Of the infinite, integral, component electrons of the
one universal substance.

All movement, or action, or impulse, is in a straight line, and in a
circle. The movement in a straight line is the repulsion, the departure,
the separation. Motion in a circle is the attraction, the return, the
embrace. This is polarity. This is sex. This is Eternal Life. This
is Eternal Death. The Two Immortals—or the One (bi-polar, bi-sexual)
Immortal.

We repeat, all the substance there is is Electricity. All the force there
is, therefore, is electrical. There being but one substance—synthetic
being—all force must be electrical. This electrical force is a unit, but
has two impulses, positive and negative, attraction and repulsion.

All organic forms contains these impulses. For illustration, take a
human entity. The positive we call man, the negative woman. Through
the embrace of certain electrons thrown off from the organism of each
(physiologically termed the spermatozoa of the male and the fecundating
fluid of the female), there is established the basis of a future organism
for manifesting consciousness and conscious or intelligent activity. A
journey is begun. Life and death are one and move side by side. Their
eternal impulse ever active. If what is called harmony or health prevails
a vigorous entity is evolved and continued. When the negative tendency
or inharmony prevails in this continued struggle for supremacy, beyond a
certain limit, the organism becomes de-harmonized, dis-eased, disabled,
unconscious, disintegrated. Such is this restless energy we call life.
The circuit completed, life and death (the positive and negative
impulse), move together side by side, but the tendency to break the
circuit—as well as to close the circuit—always obtains. When this occurs
there is a re-adjustment of conditions, out of which new forms of life
appear.

There can be no antagonism in a unit. There is only a restless energy and
impulse to effect changes; to continue the work of creation or evolution.
I want my readers to recognize death as a friend, and not as so many
regard him, an enemy. He has been and is our constant companion—he is
ourself, and is entitled to fuller and kinder recognition. We scandalize
death and caricature and abuse him, not realizing that we are abusing
ourselves. When the tired organism craves only rest, how readily we
should welcome his loving embrace. We cannot love life without loving
death, as they are one and inseparable, being the unit—which is all
there is. What is true of this ceaseless energy or electrical impulse
as manifested in organic forms, is also true in inorganic forms. It
generates all vegetables, and fruits and flowers, giving them beauty
and fragrance and flavor. And we note the same spherical growth in all,
demonstrating the electrical nature of all creation. Each cell is rotated
into form by this dual impulse. We see the same spherical formation in
our forests.

The same “dissolution” or change takes place in in-organic as in organic
life. As the “speck” or decayed spot appears on the apple we know the
circuit has been broken and the negative tendency becoming the stronger.
Everywhere, everything is the circle, and everywhere the tendency to
break that circle or circuit. In the celestial bodies called worlds, it
is the same as in the flower. Astronomers agree that there is an ultimate
limit to the so-called “life” of all planetary bodies. This is true.
They have been evolved and devolved for aeons and aeons of time. And the
eternal electrical impulse and energy will continue its sport of creation
and of destruction throughout the ages yet to be.

Life is. Without beginning—without duration—without ending. Such is the
meaning of the word Eternity.




CHAPTER VIII

Healing

Mental Therapeutics or Healing Suggestions. Christian Science. Mental
Science. Faith Healing, Etc.


As stated in a former chapter, every system of so-called mental healing
being practiced in these States or elsewhere today, whether it calls
itself Christian Science, Mental Science, Divine Healing, New Thought,
Suggestive Therapeutics, or whatever, is but an effort—with more or less
understanding—to utilize the law of electric vibration.

Mrs. Eddy says in “Science and Health,” page 292, “Electricity is not
a vital fluid, but the least material form of illusive consciousness.”
“Electricity is the sharp surplus of materiality which counterfeits the
true essence of spiritual truth.” (So simple, isn’t it?) “The vapid fury
of mortal mind expressed in earthquakes, wind, waves, lightning, fire and
bestial ferocity shows the so-called mind to be self-destructive.”

There is one synthetical substance, or truth, in the universe. You may
name it to suit yourself. It will smell just as sweet and act just the
same under whatever name you may give it. It has a habit of remaining
just what it is yesterday, today and forever. We call it Electricity.
It is the one mind, the one substance, the all and in all. From it
is evolved matter in all its various forms. The unit of all force is
electrical; the two impulses of which account for the variety of forms
in which it manifests itself. It creates, preserves, destroys, and the
various manifestations, such as earthquake, floods, fire, lightening are
but results of these two impulses, and simply show the absence of any
intelligent PURPOSE whatever; and forces us to see that there can be no
such thing as a Supreme Being—or supreme intelligence in the universe.
That this great omnipresent energy which evolved the meaningless phrases
and sentences of Mrs. Eddy’s “Christian Science” was acting neither less
nor more “intelligently” than when it produced a Beethoven sonata or a
Dante’s Inferno.

Man seems to have been able to a certain extent to control this force
and harness it to his use, and has materially lessened its destructive
tendency by devices such as the lightening-rod and various insulating
methods. This is an evidence of intelligent purpose evolved by the
vibratory forces of this intelligent substance.

Man has subjected this force to his usage upon his own organism and the
results are astounding. Every day some new application is being made. In
the field of Electro-Therapeutics there are so many new developments,
so many wondrous actions on various diseases that the medical profession
has to constantly revise its text books, in order to keep step with
this stately energy that is marching on to disclose to those attuned to
receive them the great secrets of nature.

We have the phonograph, which deposits the vibrations of the human
voice—or any other vibration, upon the wax cylinder, which can be
preserved almost indefinitely and reproduced at will. From whence came
the vibratory impulse or suggestion that invented the phonograph? The
within is as the without. The above is as the below. The macrocosm is
as the microcosm. Is there not in the laboratory of the universe some
cyclical or cylindrical formation (as all electric force—which is all the
force there is—is spherical) that receives, and preserves, and reproduces
the impressions of all thoughts, words and deeds, the brain specifically
attuned receiving its specific vibration, or thought? Does it require any
great effort to grasp the thought that the electrical (mental, thought)
forces or vibrations of the universe can be utilized by us, to act on the
cells of the brain and convey to the body or its various organs through
the nerves, our commands to cast out all inharmonious vibration, and
to refuse to entertain any but harmonious or healthful suggestions.
“Whatsoever a man thinketh, he is.” We repeat, these so-called healthful
vibrations are as free to all as the air they breathe and cannot be
corralled by any set of healers. This is not said to discredit any system
of healing, for all are with more or less understanding using the same
principle, and with accordingly varying degrees of success. But it is
said to destroy and nullify any claim of exclusive ability.

To attune yourself to receive these health-giving or harmony-producing
vibrations be alone. Assume any comfortable position. Let the body relax
and the mind become passive. All speech is electrical in its vibratory
action. Use these words:

BE STILL AND KNOW THAT I AM GOD.

You may be afraid at first to say these words. This is all the more
reason why you should say them. There is nothing so de-harmonizing and
de-vitalizing as fear. Read the chapter in this book on “Fear” again, and
cast it out of you forever.

Listen—no person ever died saying, “Be Still and Know That I Am God.”

The repetition of these words will gradually attune the brain to receive
the most health-giving, vitalizing vibrations in the universe. These,
acting on the cells of the brain are conveyed throughout the entire body
by the nerves. The lungs, the liver, the stomach—all—will gradually
receive these vitalizing, curative thought vibrations, and respond to
them.

Sometimes these inharmonious conditions seem persistent and hard to
overcome, and patience and perseverance in repetition may be necessary.
But persevere and you cannot fail to win out. It is as certain as that
friction will produce fire, and that heat will dissolve ice. Don’t whine.
Don’t beg. Don’t pray. Command, as is your right and privilege, as a unit
of this mighty electric force which is life and health. It’s up to you.
All the life and health of the universe is yours if you will. Permanent,
abiding, continuous attunement to the infinite ocean of force, is to
continue the integrity of the organism you call your—Self.


Radium

Note.—The discovery of radium opened up a field of experiment and
investigation that has greatly confirmed in the scientific mind the
belief that all action is electrical and that in this direction will be
found the solution of all biological problems.

It is now thought by scientists that radium is the source of life, if
not the so-called AURA of life itself. If this were true, it would
only mean that radium is the fundamental, basic, primeval substance of
the universe, which we have termed Electricity. … It is known to be
electrical in its action, giving off light, heat and radiant energy.
It seems to be self-existent, or self-renewing, suffering no apparent
diminution of its force or energy.

One thing is certain, Electricity is Life, and in the eternally inherent,
automatic impulse of its individual electrons will be found the solution
of all phenomena. In radium or radioactivity science may be getting down
to “bed-rock.” At any rate, it is hot on the trail that will lead to the
discovery of the truth we are announcing, viz.: that there is but one
substance—Electricity, whose eternal, infinite expression is Life.




CHAPTER IX

Resume and Conclusion


In the foregoing chapters I have endeavored to explain the great primeval
force of life—Electricity. The task is an almost impossible one, for,
while I know that my premises and deductions are correct, it is more than
difficult by words and phrases and sentences to convey to the reader my
deep conviction of the correctness of the theory introduced in these
pages.

Some of the greatest scientists in the world are experimenting with this
vital force, and almost daily the newspapers contain accounts of the
phenomenal results that are attending their efforts.

Recently in Copenhagen a certain journalist had his portrait
“photographed by electricity.” Copies were distributed throughout the
city he was about to visit with instructions that he be arrested on
sight. This was effected immediately upon his arrival there.

An important recent discovery is an electric lamp which can dissipate
fog. It produces a dear, greenish, penetrating light like moonlight. It
gives a great illuminating power without heat something like the X-ray.

Recently, aerograms were received in Honolulu and San Francisco from
Japan, proving that the ethereal electrons are sure conductors
throughout the cosmos. Entering, as this untiring energy does, into
our every day life, it is not difficult for us to see that—Life is—and
that Electricity is the only substance, out of whose revelations we are
growing into greater understanding of the forces and workings of nature.
These forces—variations and modifications of the one force—Electrical
energy—have ever BEEN; but it has taken millions of ages and the
evolution and development of man’s intelligence to even grasp the A, B,
C of this almighty power. The future has in store discoveries of such
magnitude and of such vast importance to the human race in this field of
electrical phenomena that we may well exclaim, as did the psalmist, “such
knowledge is too wonderful for me, it is high, I cannot attain unto it.”

All natural law is but some form of electrical energy by which is
evolved all the various manifestations of this wonder-working substance.
Atmospheres, ether, air, fire, water, earth, stars, planets, suns,
worlds, man, are but combinations and vibrations of the integral
particles or electrons of this one substance. Mountain and star-mist,
consciousness, intelligence, savage, Sage, Sufi, all objective and
subjective (organic and inorganic) entities, are but the infinite
manifestations of this universal substance.

The X-ray is but an intense display produced by the vibration of
trillions of these electrons. All that is called mind and all that is
called matter, is but an expression of this one universal substance. In
its eternal restless energy it creates, preserves, destroys, innumerable
forms of mind and matter. This is eternal life. This is eternal
intelligence. And “Day unto day uttereth speech and night unto night
showeth knowledge.”

A recent author on “Individualism and the vibratory energy” says, “Spirit
and matter are one and the same vibratory force; and mind and matter are
one and not distinct substances.”

Since commencing to write these lines the author has found a number of
writers whose works have been of great help to him, and served to confirm
him in his theory.

The attunement of the brain cells to varying rates of vibration in the
universe, brings all things to you on the principle of the wireless
telegraph. “All things are yours,” was the announcement of the Master of
the Christian system. This is scientifically true. The universe is at
your disposal and you can get it. Not through sorrow, and toil and labor,
but in the same way that trees and flowers get it—inspirationally.

Telepathy, which is attracting wide-spread notice at the present time,
is as scientific as telegraphy. Some of the greater scientists are
investigating its claims through “spiritual mediums,” though there
are few who accept the latter’s claims, as in such a field it would
be impossible to prevent impostors from preying upon the ignorant and
credulous. There are honest mediums. In fact, every human entity is
a “medium,” receiving and transmitting, receiving and transmitting
continually.

There are some so acutely attuned by environment and habit of thought,
to the universe of thought, that they receive communications beyond
their fellows. These are poets, artists, musicians, inventors, etc. The
thoughts of Plato, Socrates, Krishma, Jesus, ARE today. You may know all
they knew if you can attune yourself to such a rate of vibration as to
establish the proper connection. This is a plain, every-day, scientific,
matter-of-fact explanation of all modern “spiritualistic communications.”
There should be no more mystery or superstition, or spiritual clap-trap
about it than there is about wireless telegraphy.

There are persons who can readily attune themselves to the vibrations
of another and “read the thoughts”—unconscious as well as conscious—of
individuals composing an entire audience. With many this is easily
accomplished through personal contact. Some years ago the writer of these
pages was well acquainted with Washington Irving Bishop, the great
“mind reader,” who since died, or was murdered by doctors in New York,
who dissected his brain while he was in a cataleptic condition, they
supposing him dead. One of his performances was to have some stranger
take a bank-note, read the number on it and place it in a safe. During
this time Bishop was at some distance away heavily blindfolded. When all
was ready, he would take this man’s hand and after a short interval give
the number on the bank-note, which was invariably found to be correct.
I questioned him very closely on this performance, which I witnessed
frequently. He said as soon as he placed his fingers on the wrist of the
man who placed the note, the number would come to him without difficulty.
He claimed that it was telepathy or clairvoyance. As a matter of fact, it
was simply attunement to the mind of the man who knew the number, and, as
in the action of the wireless telegraph, the two brains being similarly
attuned, the message was sent and received. There are many today to whom
this would be a mere kindergarten performance. You perhaps did not know
that every time you shake hands you run the risk of giving away your
inmost secrets. I am prepared to tell you that this is true. “There is
nothing hidden but it shall be revealed, and there is nothing secret but
it shall be made known.”

We receive impressions of impending disaster which we regard as
“supernatural.” Once for all let me say there is nothing supernatural.
A knowledge of this fact ought to cure you of your superstitions and
destroy your fears. Light, sound, color, travel faster than letters or
telegrams. The impending disaster vibrations often reach us long before
the actual occurrence itself. Even as we see the flash of lightening, or
the flash of the powder, before we hear the thunder or the report of the
cannon.

All these things are but movements of the electrons of the universe,
carrying out the natural law of their being, which is electrical impulse.

Prof. Dolbear says, “Molecules which are a combination of atoms, are
known to have their constant state of vibrations and from this and the
fact of their perfect transparency, they can no more be seen than the
air. They are so minute, so restless, like atoms of hydrogen, that no one
can hope to see them or learn their characteristic properties.”

Observation and study of the phenomena of electrical energy reveal to us
the nature of that substance, which we are, and with which we have to
do. The fundamental, inevitable, never-varying law of polarity—pushing
and pulling—or positive and negative action. In creation, throughout
all experience, this is seen. Land and sea, day and night, right and
left, up and down, sweet and sour, east and west, north and south, good
and bad, right and wrong, man and woman, attraction and repulsion—the
so-called “pairs of opposites”,—Sex everywhere. Is it difficult to see
by analogy and deduction that polarity is universal. That all phenomena
are electrical phenomena. That birth, and growth, disease and disaster,
decline and death are all electrical phenomena, and that there is but one
synthetic substance—ELECTRICITY.

  [1]The germ, the embryo, the child,
       The foolish boy, the man,
     Are onward steps from nothingness
       In God’s progressive plan.

     Forever onward is the march—
       From beastly hoof to hand—
     From savage to the seer and sage—
       From Saurian types to man;
     From man to angel—limitless
       As are the starry spheres,
     Progression hath not halt nor bound
       In God’s eternal years!

     From darkest cloud the lightning flash—
       From nothing—life Divine,
     From gloom to glory is the law
       The unvarying design.
     A world of good invites our eyes
       And charms the willing mind—
     But he who only misery finds
       Blasphemes the life Divine.

     The mountain side—the billowy sea
       Of waving prairie flowers,
     The gardens, glades, and spicy groves
       Around this world of ours
     Proclaim the endless festival
       Of beauty,—and the truth—
     The deathless power of Love Divine
       Eternal in its youth.

[1] Arena.





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Secret of Life, Death and
Immortality, by Henry Fleetwood

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK 57668 ***
